Buildings
Terrain may also include any number of buildings.
 Buildings are large walled, usually enclosed areas of the
battlefield normally decorated with windows, doors, and
maybe a roof.
 These can be shacks, trailer homes, row houses,
mansions, warehouses, gas stations, granaries, or even a
laboratory, or a diner. As the genre changes, so does the
kinds of buildings which appear upon the battlefield.
 Buildings can be represented by large 3D game
elements, 2.5D layouts, or even just a floor-plan map.
 Buildings normally are used as decorative terrain, but
players may agree to allow some to be entered. Agree
on how the interior of these areas are represented.
Navigating Buildings
Buildings without access to the interior by default may
never be entered.
 Players may always optionally agree to have such these
designed with interior layouts laid adjacent to the
battlefield to allow navigation. Or, remove the ceilings
to reveal lavish interiors.
 Any stairs or ladder access to other floors or to the roof
should be determined randomly if it is not obvious, not
physical present, and if it was not designated at the start
of play.
 Doors and windows marked upon buildings are by default
closed and locked. Players must decide otherwise.
 Stairs and ladders only exist if physically available, or if
players clearly identify their presence and location.
 Characters traversing very long staircases, ropes, and
ladders should be identified with markers identifying their
position upon those terrain elements.

Building Access
Characters may perform Fiddle actions to adjust the state
of gates, doors, windows, and locks. This will require
additional recording keeping or markers to indicate status.
Fiddle actions are an Individual Action which characters
are allowed to perform. See Playing the Game for more
information.
 Gates, doors, windows, and locks have an initial state.
 A basic state is either open or closed.
 All doors and windows can be locked or unlocked.
 Locks, which are an element added to a gate, door, or
window; can also be locked or unlocked.
 The default value unless specified otherwise will always
be locked and closed.
 Changing state from open to closed is a Fiddle action.
 Presuming there exists a key and a lock; locking or
unlocking also takes a 1 AP Fiddle action. 2 AP to pick a
lock with tools.