Fire ()
Fire is a dynamic terrain feature generated by certain
traits, spells, weapons, or Items of equipment.
Fire Markers
Missions may specify that Fire markers are deployed upon
the battlefield. Some weapons also deploy Fire markers.
 Fire markers are given a size in “Fire points” of 1, 2, 3,
and 4 which correspond to a marker which is 0.75 MU, 1
MU, 2 MU, or 3 MU in diameter. And about twice as tall
to represent smoke.
 Fire markers generate Obscuring terrain within 1" up to
twice its base-diameter in height.
 Models may cross but not stand upon Fire markers.
 Fire markers behave as Soft Cover.
 Fire markers have Light X, where X is its Fire points + 6.
 Additional Light X is generated in any given 4 MU
diameter area, plus 1 for a second of equal X, or four at
X minus 1.
Fire Effects
At the start of a character’s Initiative determine how many
Fire markers are in base-contact.
 Perform a “Scorch Test” as an Unopposed REF Test at -1
Modifier die per Fire marker in base-contact.
 Upon fail, the model is subject to an Unopposed SIZ Test
as a Damage Test; adjusted by -1 Modifier die for each
of those misses. Upon failing the Damage Test, it is
assigned a Burned token for every miss.
Spreading Fire
Fire markers in base-contact with Flammable terrain may
“Spread Fire”.
 Do not check to see if the Fire markers are reduced.
 Check “Spread Fire” at the end of each Turn for every
Fire marker by rolling two Modifier dice.
 Roll an additional Modifier die if the Fire marker is already
size 4 (3 MU) in diameter. Fire markers will spread faster
upwards; roll an additional Modifier die.
 Upon success, increase the size of the Fire marker.
 For each additional success, place a size 1 Fire marker in
base-contact to the current Fire marker at the Flammable
terrain. If necessary, use the Unbiased Scatter diagram.
 If the “Spread Fire” check results in 3 successes, a
Gas:Blacksmoke Puff marker is also generated and
placed in base-contact.

Reducing Fire Markers
Fires very soon disappear by being “reduced”.
 At the end of the current Player’s Turn; check every Fire
marker which is not on Flammable terrain (this is the
default) and roll two Modifier dice.
 If the terrain is indoors such as linoleum, marble,
concrete or cement, sand, rocks, dirt, etc.; automatically
reduce each Fire marker by one before rolling the dice.
 If there are no successes, reduce its size by 1.
 Remove the Fire marker if it is less than size 1.
 Wet terrain is Terrain that stops Fire markers.
 All water, rivers, ponds, or areas identified with snow.
 Fire markers will never cross into Wet terrain.
 Fire markers upon Wet terrain are reduced by two sizes
before rolling the dice. Those which are reduced are
replaced with a Gas:Steam markers of equal size.
Gas and Fire
Newly placed Fire markers will affect Gas markers already
upon the battlefield;
 Gas markers will never move towards Fire markers.
 All Gas markers already upon the battlefield will move, if
within their own base-diameter of a Fire marker when it
is placed will reposition away the base-diameter of the
Fire marker placed.
 Start with the largest Gas markers first, and then all of the
next size smaller, repeating this until all have been
repositioned.
 If the Attacker and the target location are known,
reposition the Gas markers away from the LOF and the
Attacker and target. Otherwise use the Unbiased Scatter
diagram.
 Gas markers which become in base-contact other Gas
markers reposition those others in the same direction and
remain in base-contact.
 Newly placed Gas markers which become in base-
contact with Fire markers will reduce in size according to
the size of the largest Fire marker. If the resulting size is
smaller than 1, remove the Gas marker; it does not
Linger.
Terrain Conversion
 If a Terrain element such as a bush, or tree is affected by
a Fire marker; replace that element when placing the
Fire marker.
 If a portion of a Building is affected by a size 4 (3 MU)
Fire marker; instead of placing additional Fire markers,
remove that portion of the Building if possible.
