MISSIONS & SCENARIOS
Most of the time players will want to just have a fray and
throw their forces at each other. At other times they’ll
want to have nuanced game-play. Missions provide this.
Overview
Missions define starting, end, and victory conditions.
These allow players to form their own battlefields and
freely choose Archetypes to build their own Assemblies.
Scenarios are also Missions, but also specify what terrain
and Assemblies are to be used.
Mission Elements
There are several types of game elements introduced into
most Missions. These are Battlefield Edges, Points-of-
Interests, Very-Important-Persons, Resource Points,
Objective Markers, and Keys to Victory.
Battlefield Edges, Zones, and Corners
A Battlefield is the play-area and is typically a square or
rectangle with four “battlefield edges”.
 Edges — When players deploy their models, it will be
from one of these edges.
 Zones — Each Battlefield zone runs the entire length of
the play-area at each Battlefield edge, and be 2, 4, or 8
MU in width for a Small, Medium, or Large game.
 In a game with two Sides, Opposing players will deploy on
opposing sides of the battlefield.
 If there are 3 or 4 Sides, each picks one of the edges.
However, each edge will stop before the corners by 2, 4,
or 8 MU for a Small, Medium, or Large game.
 Corners — Some Missions may describe Battlefield
corners. These will be one of the four corners of the
play-area going outward a radius of 4, 8, or 16 MU for a
Small, Medium, or Large game.
Points of Interest
A Point-of-Interest [ POI ] is a large terrain piece about 12" × 12" such as a building, a hill, a crashed vehicle, a dead giant, or a fountain which is placed at the center of the battlefield.
 It should be traversable and may optionally have gates and doors at its exterior leading within from all directions.
 Such entrances are initially closed requiring a Fiddle Action to open or to close again.
 Control — Refer to the Dominance Key to Victory for turn-based control scoring. Refer to the POI Key to Victory for end-game control scoring.

VIP (Very-Important-Person)
A VIP is a character that serves appears or will appear upon the battlefield.
 Archetype — The VIP will be an Untrained, Scholarly archetype unless otherwise specified. It will never be assigned any Items unless specified by the description for a Mission. Represent the VIP with any easy to recognize model.
 Controlling — A player controls the VIP when a Friendly Attentive Ordered model is in base-contact with it, and there are no Ordered Opposing models within Cohesion. That Friendly model becomes the Guardian character and the VIP becomes Controlled.
 This will be a Fiddle action and require 2 AP.
 If a Guardian starts in base-contact, a Controlled VIP will automatically reposition to maintain base-contact.
 When a Controlled VIP is not in base-contact with a Guardian, it must either move towards Cover or towards the Guardian if it has LOS.
 If the Guardian is KO'd or Eliminated, the VIP is no longer considered Controlled.
 Transfer — Control of the VIP can be transferred to any Friendly model within Cohesion if the VIP and the other two models are Attentive. This will be a Fiddle action and require 1 AP. That model becomes the new Guardian.
 Abilities — The VIP possesses one ability (chosen at deployment) usable once per game when Attentive Ordered within 8 MU of an objective.


Resource Points
The Side which acquires the most Victory Points [ VP ] by
the end of a Mission achieves victory and wins.
Resource Points [ RPs ] are used as a secondary way to gain
an additional VP and to also break ties in the highest VP
totals.
 +1 VP to the Side awarded the most Resource Points.
 Having double the RP of the next Opposing Side, but by
at least 10 RPs more, is +2 VP instead.
 If there is still a tie for VPs then the Side with the most
total RPs win.

Objective Markers
Each Mission will describe if there will be Objective
Markers [ OMs ] present, their type and number, and how
to place them upon the battlefield.
Typically place OMs near Obstacle terrain to indicate
something important is present.
 OM Types — There are several different types of OMs,
and how they are acquired during play and how they
enable scoring varies. An OM could be one or more of:
 Switches — A Switch OM. These change the state of some
game element. These do not move, and may not be
acquired or collected. Switches have and “On” and “Off”
state.
 Lock — A Switch OM. Similar to Switches, but its state
may only be toggled if the paired Idea or Physical OMs
are In Hand.
 Key — A Key OM. These either an Idea or Physical OM
paired with a specifically named Lock OM.
 Idea — An Idea OM. These represents abstract bits of
information either something that is seen, heard, or
learned at the location of the OM. No limit to how many
can be In Hand.
 Tiny — A Physical OM. This is the default OM type. It is a
tiny physical Item which can be pocketed. Tiny OMs
always require at least 2 AP to acquire.
 Small — A Physical OM. These are small physical Items
which can be held in hand. These are assigned the [1H]
and [Stub] traits, and are about the size of a loaf of bread.
 Large — A Physical OM. These are large physical Items
which are assigned the [1H] trait. Having 2 gives the set
the [Laden] trait. About the size of a small bag of flour.
 Bulky — A Physical OM. These are bulky physical Items
which are assigned [2H] and [Laden 2] traits. About 10-kg
in mass or about the size of a large bag of dog food.

Actions
OMs may be acquired transferred, and shared.
 Acquire — While Free, if there are no other Attentive
Opposing models which are also in base-contact with
the OM; acquire by spending 1 AP for a Fiddle action.
 Unless the OM represents a Switch OM, keep it with the
model when acquired. Note or identify that it is acquired
and are “In Hand”.
 Animals may never acquire Idea OMs, but may alter
Switch OMs.
 Per the standard rules, characters usually have 2 Hands to
carry Items, and can use effectively an additional Hand,
but it is -1 Base die for all Combat Tests and Fiddle Test.
 Transfer — While in base-contact, any Physical OMs can
be transferred as a 1 AP Fiddle action to the Active
character between Friendly characters if at least one is
Attentive Ordered.
 The Fiddle action will require 2 AP if it involves Stunned or
Disordered Distracted characters. This includes Opposing
characters.
 Physical OMs transferred from an Opposing model are
always regarded as Neutral OMs.
 Shared — Idea OMs require 1 AP, plus one per total
Hindrance between two Free Friendly Attentive
characters within Cohesion. Both will have a copy, but
only one copy will ever benefit a player for scoring.
Concerns
 Scoring — Each OM acquired awards +1 RP. Switch OMs
are acquired when first toggled, and Physical OMs are
not scored if character with it becomes Eliminated.
 Dropping — Characters which are KO’d or Eliminated
drop all their Physical OMs at their location. They are
dropped as Neutral OMs valuable to all Sides.
 Improvised Weapons — All Physical OMs may be used
as an Improvised weapon. However, they immediately
break and become worthless when performing a
Damage test using them. When broken, they are worth
zero RP.
 Destroying — All Switch OMs may never be attacked or
destroyed unless specified by a Mission. Physical OMs
may be attacked using a Fiddle action for 1 AP to destroy
them. Idea OMs are usually destroyed when a character
which acquired it has been Eliminated.

Keys to Victory
There are many common victory conditions, and they are
given keywords (“Keys to Victory”) described here.
 Within each of the Missions there will be a list of these
keywords so just refer back to this section as needed.
 When the game ends, the Side with the most Victory
Points (VP) is the winner.

Here are the keywords and their effect on victory.
There are many common victory conditions, and they are given keywords ("Keys to Victory") described here.
 Within each of the Missions there will be a list of these keywords so just refer back to this section as needed.
 When the game ends, the Side with the most Victory Points (VP) is the winner.
Here are the keywords and their effect on victory.
 Acquisition — +1 VP to the Mission Attacker for taking one or more Objective Markers off the battlefield.
 Aggression — +1 VP if at least half of the Assembly's models, by starting count, cross an imaginary line across the middle of the battlefield. Award +1 RP to the first model to cross.
 VIP — +1 VP to Side protecting a designated model with special abilities; +2 VP to Opponent if Eliminated. The VIP may utilize a special ability once per game when Attentive Ordered within 8 MU of an objective.
 Bottled — +1 VP if the Opposing Side fails its Bottle Test ["Bottled Out"] or has no Ordered characters. In games with 3 or more Sides, if there are at least two Opposing Sides still remaining in play, reward those sides each +3 Resource Points instead each time a side has "Bottled Out".
 Catalyst — +1 VP to Side that first triggers a specified battlefield condition or event. Player may spend 2 AP Fiddle action to trigger Catalyst condition; first Side to trigger awards VP and modifies battlefield state (e.g., terrain degradation, Visibility reduction).
 Collection — +1 VP to player with the most OMs acquired. Each OM acquired awards +1 Resource Point at game end.
 Courier — +1 VP if a model from its Side makes base-contact with a designated location. Model reaching delivery point awards +1 VP immediately, then +1 VP per subsequent Turn it remains within 4 MU. Model may voluntarily leave to reset delivery elsewhere.
 Dominance — +1 VP per Turn a Side maintains exclusive control of designated zones or objectives. Zone awards VP per full Turn a Side maintains exclusive control (no Opposing models within Cohesion). VP accrues at End of Turn.
 Elimination — +1 VP if have most Opposing KO'd and Eliminated characters by BP total at game end.
 Encroachment — Score 1 VP to be the first Side with a model to cross the mid-point line of the battlefield toward an Opposing Assembly.
 Exit — +1 VP to Mission Defender if at least half of its original assembly has exited the battlefield at the designated areas.
 First Blood — +1 VP if first Side to Wound an Opposing model, or if in Range Combat to KO'd or Eliminate it.
 Flawless — Automatic Victory goes to the last player with a character not Eliminated nor KO'd at game end.
 Outnumbered — +1 VP to the Side that is outnumbered 3:2 models or greater at start of game, but +2 VP if outnumbered by 2:1 models or greater. If there are multiple Sides remaining at the end of the game, do not award this keyword.
 POI — +1 VP to the Side "In Control" of the majority of Points-of-Interest at game end. A Friendly character within 4 MU of the center of the POI but with no Opposing models within Cohesion of that character is considered "In Control".
 Sanctuary — +1 VP per Turn a Side maintains a specified percentage of BP within designated deployment zones. Models within Sanctuary zone receive +1 Wild die Defender Tests but cannot perform Attack actions.
 Targeted — +1 VP when a specified character or model is KO'd or Eliminated. By default, this is the character with the highest BP value at the start of the Mission. A further +1 RP per Officer Rank and +1 RP per Reputation it has.