Fire-lane ()
Very powerful Modern Age “Support” weapons, such as
Machine Guns, normally receive the Fire-lane trait.
Prepare Fire-lane
 Prepare Action — Either spend 1 AP as a Fiddle action
and become Braced, or 2 AP and be Emplaced.
 Mark with Braced or Emplaced status marker, by
identifying and placing it in the “front-half” of the model.
This creates and limits its “Field-of-Fire” [ FOF ] and which
models can be targeted.
 Costs zero AP to maintain Braced or Emplaced.
 Gunner — If a weapon has the [Emplaced] trait, it
requires a Gunner.
 A Friendly Free Ordered model in base-contact with an
[Emplaced] weapon to use it for Attacks is its “Gunner”.
 In many sculpts, the weapon and the Gunner are
modelled and placed upon the same base-diameter.
 Loader — A Loader is an optional role, and is usually one
of the models associated with [Crewed] weapons. An
Attentive Friendly Free Ordered model in base-contact
with the Gunner and also the weapon can be a “Loader”.
Constraints
 When a Fire-lane weapon is Braced, the model
associated with it (or the Gunner) is penalized -1
Modifier die Defender Combat Tests.
 When a Fire-lane weapon is Emplaced, the model
associated with it (or the Gunner) is penalized -1 Wild
die Defender Combat Tests.
Removal
Action:
Remove any Braced or Emplaced status at the end of an
 whenever the player controlling the Fire-lane weapon
(or its Gunner) decides.
 when the Gunner becomes Engaged, repositions or
moves, is KO’d or Eliminated.
 when the weapon is no longer Emplaced, is Out-of-Play,
or otherwise unavailable.

General Benefits
While Braced or Emplaced, the Fire-lane weapon allows
interrupts, and creates a new Passive Player Option known
as "Suppressive Fire!".
Whenever any target enters or moves within LOS and
within its Field-of-Fire [ FOF ]:
 Stability — Effectively increase STR by 1 if Braced, or by
2 if Emplaced, when affected by [Recoil] or [Jitter].
 Suppressive Fire! — If Attentive, receive a number of
Suppression markers equal to the weapon's ROF X trait.
 Place at least one Suppression marker within range to the
target, and LOS of the Gunner or weapon.
 Place the remaining Suppression markers among other
Opposing models in LOS if they are within Cohesion to the
LOF through the first target.
 When finished, roll a Modifier die for each Suppression
marker placed. If any miss, acquire a Delay token.
Remove any Wait token instead if present.
Emplaced Benefits
There are additional benefits while Emplaced.
 Steady — Receive +1 Suppression effect.
 Effective — When acquiring a Delay token after finishing
the Suppress step above, instead roll 2 Modifier dice.
Acquire a Delay token only when all are misses.
 Team-work — A Free Attentive Ordered Loader may
acquire a Delay token at any time to remove any one
Out-of-Ammo! or Jammed! status markers, or to receive
the Delay token from the Gunner.

