Expanded Effects ()
These are markers used with some uncommon traits and
environmental features available in specific genres,
missions, and scenarios.
Overview
The Advanced Game involves many new Hindrances,
Statuses, and the addition of dynamic Terrain elements.
Hindrance Tokens
 Acid — Small green and orange.
 Blinded — Use the ROF marker with a six-sided die.
 Burned — Small orange.
 Confused — Small black and white spiral.
 Entangled — Use Emplaced marker with a six-sided die.
 Held — Use Fire-lane marker with a six-sided die.
 Poisoned — Small green.
 Transfixed — Small purple.
Terrain Elements
 Gas — Large green or mustard cotton pillar.
 Smoke — Large white cotton pillar.
 Puff — Small cotton ball.
 Webbing & Strands — Long and stringy cotton strands.
 Fire — Large vortex pillars of orange-red-black cotton.
 Heat varies by representation.
Status Markers
 Suppression — An 8-point Chaos symbol
 ROF — A small 4-point cross
 Emplaced — A firing range “dog-target”
 Braced — A directional arrow
Acid ()
 When a character is assigned one or more Acid tokens it
becomes Acid-burned status.
 Acid tokens behave as Wound tokens for determining
when a character becomes KO’d or Eliminated.
 Each Acid token reduces CCA and RCA by 1.
 Do not remove Acid tokens when a character is KO’d.
 Acid tokens are removed after a Mission, but the
character will suffer a permanent penalty effect.
 Hindrance — Having one or more Acid tokens will cause
a penalty of -1 Modifier die for every Test the character
performs, except for the Damage Test.

Blinded ()
When a character is assigned one or more Blinded tokens
it becomes Blinded status.
Blinded tokens are so rarely used that they are best
represented using an ROF marker with a small six-sided die
atop it.
 A Blinded character is also considered Distracted.
 Remove Blinded tokens when a character is KO’d.
 While Blinded, the Visibility OR is at most 4" minus 1"
per Blinded token. Remove one at the end of Initiative.
 Hindrance — Having one or more Blinded tokens will
cause a penalty of -1 Modifier die for every Test the
character performs, except for the Damage Test.
Burned ()
 When a character is assigned one or more Burned
tokens it becomes Burned status.
 Burned tokens behave as Wound tokens for determining
when a character becomes KO’d or Eliminated.
 Each Burned token will reduce a character’s MOV by 1.
 Do not remove Burned tokens when a character is KO’d.
 Burned tokens are removed after a Mission, but the
character will suffer permanent penalty effect.
 Hindrance — Having one or more Burned tokens will
cause a penalty of -1 Modifier die for every Test the
character performs, except for the Damage Test.
Confused ()
 When a character is assigned one or more Confused
tokens it becomes Confused status.
 A Confused character is also considered Distracted.
 At the start of this character’s Initiative, an Opposing
player (clockwise order) controls the character for as
many Actions as the model has Confused tokens, up to its
normal AP limits.
 At the end of this character’s Initiative, roll a Modifier die
for each Confused token. For each success, remove one
Confused token.
 Remove all Confused tokens when a character is KO’d.
 This character can benefit from Rally Tests. Each cascade
can instead be spent to remove one Confused token.
 Hindrance — Having one or more Confused tokens will
cause a penalty of -1 Modifier die for every Test the
character performs, except for the Damage Test.

Entangled ()
When a character is assigned one or more Entangled
tokens it becomes Entangled status.
Entangled tokens are represented using an Emplaced
marker with a small six-sided die atop it showing count.
 An Entangled character is also considered Distracted.
 Each Entangled token reduces CCA, RCA, MOV, STR by 1,
and each trait with the Movement keyword by 1. This
includes any Armor Rating [ AR ] for all Items equipped.
 When a character is KO’d, do not remove its Entangled
tokens until after the Mission ends.
 Hindrance — Having one or more Entangled tokens will
cause a penalty of -1 Modifier die for every Test the
character performs, except for the Damage Test.
Held ()
Held tokens are represented using a Braced marker placed
between the Active character and pointing to its target.
 Both models are in Held status, but the Holder is the
Active character, and the Holdee is the target.
 There can only be a single Held token between any two
models. This requires 1 Hand from the Holder.
 If the Holder desires during its Initiative, or is KO’d or
Eliminated, or becomes Distracted or Disordered, its Held
token is removed.
 If the Holdee is KO’d or Eliminated, its Held tokens remain
until their Holder removes them or is no longer In-Play.
 While Held, the two models must maintain base-contact.
No model may move or reposition if they are also Held by
another Holder.
 While in Held status:
 [Stub] or Natural weapons receive +1 Close Combat
Tests. [Stub] weapons may be used for multiple attacks
during the Initiative without acquiring a Delay token as a
penalty.
 Reach and [Hafted] weapons require +1 AP to perform an
Attack action unless the Opposing model is Distracted.
 While Attentive, all attacks receive +3 Impact.
 Hindrance — Having one or more Held tokens will cause
a penalty of -1 Modifier die for every Test the character
performs, except for the Damage Test.

Poisoned ()
 When a character is assigned one or more Poisoned
tokens it becomes Poisoned status.
 Poison tokens behave as Wound tokens for determining
when a character becomes KO’d or Eliminated.
 Each Poison token reduces MOV and STR by 1.
 Do not remove Poison tokens when a character is KO’d.
 Poison tokens are removed after a Mission.
 Hindrance — Having one or more Poison tokens will
cause a penalty of -1 Modifier die for every Test the
character performs, except for the Damage Test.
Transfixed ()
 When a character is assigned one or more Transfixed
tokens it becomes Transfixed status.
 A Transfixed character is also considered Distracted.
 During its Initiative, a Transfixed character reduces 1 from
every Attribute and every trait it has per Transfixed token
assigned to it.
 At the end of this character’s Initiative, roll a Modifier die
for each Transfixed token. For each success, remove one
Transfixed token.
 This character can benefit from Rally Tests. Each cascade
can instead be spent to remove one Transfixed token.
 Remove all Transfixed tokens when a character is KO’d.
 Hindrance — Having one or more Transfixed tokens will
cause a penalty of -1 Modifier die for every Test the
character performs, except for the Damage Test.

