Suppression ()
Attacks using ROF, and attacks with the Explosion trait
enable use of the Suppression rules. Suppression is an area
deterrent forcing models to either stay in position in
behind Cover or to move away from their position.
Suppression markers are used to identify where
Suppression exists. These are normally on the reverse side
of an ROF marker.
Flipping ROF Markers:
At the very end of an Attack action involving ROF, after
performing any Morale Tests, do the following:
 Remove any ROF markers which were placed in range of
the model that created (and placed) them.
 Flip any remaining ROF markers to show their
Suppression marker side. Do not do this if all models in
range are Done.
Placement for Explosion Attacks:
After resolving an attack which used the Explosion trait,
place a Suppression marker at each model that was
subject to a Blast Effect of 1 or more, or Frag Effect of 1 or
more, and have LOS to the attack location.
Place the Suppression marker just before any Direct Cover,
or just after but in base-contact with any Soft Cover.
Removal
Suppression tends to dissipate slowly. Removing
Suppression markers requires vigilance by all players.
At the end of any model’s Initiative, after it receives a
Done token, or when it is no longer In-Play;
 Remove all Suppression markers which have no In-Play
models within range.
 Remove all Suppression markers in range of the Initiative
player’s models unless they are also in range of a Ready
model.
 At the start of a Turn, when Done tokens are removed,
flip all ROF markers to show their Suppression marker
side.

Suppress Action
Models with ROF weapons may use a new “Suppression
Attack” which allows more Suppression markers.
 Suppress — Announce “Suppression Attack” which is a
variation on the Direct Range Combat Attack. It costs
either 2 AP, or 1 AP and receive a Delay token.
 Place the ROF markers and perform the Range Combat
Hit Test as an Attack action.
 Afterwards, the Attacker receives an extra +1 ROF
marker, and +1 ROF marker for every two it placed before
performing the Test.
 Place these within range of any existing ROF markers.
 Follow the Placement rules above to flip markers.
Effects of Suppression
Each Suppression marker has a Suppression range of 1"
from its center. This includes 1" vertically upwards so that
it can be jumped over or ignored by models at different
elevations. Suppression extends to all models within
range. It extends through Soft Cover but not Hard Cover.
 Suppression Effect — When a character begins within
range of one or more Suppression markers and performs
a Test (excluding the Damage Test), apply the
Suppression effect as a DR as follows:
 The Suppression effect is DR 1, 2, 3, or 4 if there are 1, 2,
5, or 10 markers in range. Anything more than 10 is
regarded as 10.
 If the target is within Suppression range and behind
Cover, penalize its Attacker.
 If the Active character is within Suppression range,
penalize that character.
 Take Cover! — Attentive Passive Ordered models behind
Cover may immediately become Hidden status. See
Passive Player Options for more information.

Attempting & Crossing Suppression
At the start and during an Active model’s action,
determine the total amount of Suppression effect within
range if a model would or could cross. This includes along
the path of any attempted move.
Crossing Suppression happens when:
 Moving across or within its 1" range, but not away from.
 Performing any other Action except Hide while within 1"
range.
 Being forcibly repositioned or moved into Suppression
range.
 Characters merely involved in a Test are never Crossing.
Morale Test
A model within Suppression range attempting to
voluntarily cross must perform a Fiddle action with an
Unopposed POW Test.
 Adjust for the Suppression effect. It is a DR.
 Apply any Situational Test Modifiers for Morale Tests.
 If that fails, the model may not cross. Allow additional
attempts.
 Otherwise, continue to the Suppression Test with any
carryovers.
Suppression Test
When Suppression is crossed, a “Suppression Test” is
required. This is required at most once per Action, but
never for the same Suppression markers for any Initiative.
 Perform the Suppression Test as Unopposed Test REF
Test DR the Suppression effect.
 Apply Situational Test Modifiers for Defender Range Hit
Combat.
 For each miss, receive a Delay token as Stun damage, up
to the number of Suppression markers actually in range.
 Afterwards, perform the desired action.

Ignoring Suppression
Some models are so well armored or powerful that they
might not experience Suppression. For each model, have
the Opposing player check as follows;
 Core Damage — For the attack used, add flat value plus
number of dice of the Damage Rating for the weapon.
 Core Defense — For the target, reduce its Armor Rating
by Impact, and 3 for Concentrate if just placed. Reduce
the total by 1 per ROF or Suppression marker in range.
 Compare — If Core Damage is less than Core Defense,
do not place Suppression markers, nor perform
Suppression Tests, nor apply Suppression effects for that
model.