Group Actions & Go Points ()
Go Points allow Members of a Group within an Assembly
to coordinate their actions.
 Large Assemblies of at least six members receive Go
Points. Assemblies which outnumber their opposition
are also awarded additional Go Points.
 Go Points are best spent before the Opposing Side has
placed all of their models into Done status.
 At the end of every Turn, when all models have been
marked as Done, all players lose the remainder of their
unspent Go Points.
Overview
Group Actions are a limited set of Actions which can be
performed by a group of Ready Ordered Friendly models.
 These actions require Go Points [ GP ] which may be
spent similar to Initiative Points.
 Initiative Points may always be spent as Go Points [ GP ].

Acquiring Go Points
Alter the Turn Sequence for the Basic Game rules by
adding this “Acquiring Go Points” step after the Readying
step and before the Determine Initiative step.
 Multitudes — Each player counts how many Ordered In-
Play models they have. A player receives 1 Go Point per
every 3 models above the first 3 models that they have.
 Outnumbering — For every Ordered In-Play model
which a Side outnumbers the Side with the lowest count;
receive 1 Go Point. If there are more than 2 Sides,
subtract 1 GP from the amount received for each
additional Side.

Spending Go Points
Go Points may be spent at any time during a player’s own
Initiative for Go Abilities as follows;
 Keep Initiative — Pay 1 GP. Do not pass Initiative to another
player; instead activate another Ready model. May not use
twice in a row.
 Start Group — Pay 1 GP. Start a Group Action by designating
a Ready model as Group Leader. Followers must be added.
 Group Membership — Pay 1 GP. Allow a Ready Attentive
Ordered Friendly model to join a Group Action as a Follower
if it is within Cohesion of the Group Leader. Limit the number
of Followers to no higher than the POW of the Group Leader,
but at least one.
 Limited Refresh — Pay 1 GP. When a Group Member model
receives its Done token, remove one of its Delay tokens.
 Prepared Shift — Pay 1 GP. Do not acquire a Delay token
when using Shift during a Bonus Action.
 Continue Transfer — Pay 1 GP. If have the Initiative card,
continue allowing it to be transferred to an Opposing player
in order to re-roll any Test.
Beneficial Traits
There are several Ability traits which take advantage of the
Group Actions concept to benefit players with many
models.
Leadership, Pack-mentality, Pathfinder, Unit, Officer.
There are also a few uncommon or rare Disability traits
that some characters could be assigned to make them less
expensive to purchase, thereby allowing more to be
available for a given Assembly.
[Cautious], [Coward], [Mindless], [Stubborn],
[Undisciplined]

Identify the Group Members
A Group consists of Group Members; the Group Leader
and the Group Followers.
 Choose Leader — Pay 1 GP to start a Group Action.
 Identify a Ready Attentive Ordered model as the Group
Leader.
 Place a pawn at the Group Leader as a reminder and
remove it when the Group Action is completed.
 Choose Followers — The player must now identify at
least one Follower as a Member of the Group Action.
 It will cost 1 GP to for each model to add as a Follower.
 Followers must be Ready Attentive Ordered Friendly
models within Cohesion. If the Follower is in Wait status,
optionally remove the Wait token to be a member for
zero GP.
 Examine the POW rating of the Group Leader; no more
than that many Followers are allowed in the Group,
though at least one Follower is allowed.
 Late Addition — Allow just 1 more Follower beyond what
is allowed. This may be at any time during a Group Move
when it becomes within Cohesion of any Member. Assign
it or another Group Member a Delay token at the end of
the Group Action.
 Tandem Addition — If a Follower has the Group Leader
within each other’s Melee Range at the start of that
Group Leader’s Initiative, it may join for zero GP.
 Issue Command — As an option, allow the Group Leader
to perform a different action than the Group Followers, or
no action at all. It acquires a Delay token if Free. If the
Group Leader has a Wait token, remove that instead.

Group Actions
Place a Reminder pawn at the Group Leader.
 Coordinate — The Group Leader has the Initiative.
Decide the type of Group Action to be coordinated, and
disallow the Combined Action.
 Concerted Attack — This is a single Abrupt attack against
a single target. See details for Concerted Attacks on the
next page.
 Free-for-all Attack — This can be against a single or
multiple targets, but is resolved one at a time.
Starting with the Group Leader, have each Member
become the Active model, and have it perform an Attack
action.
No target may be further apart than Cohesion of that
pawn, and all must be within LOS of the Group Leader.
 Group Move — This allows a Group Members to move
quickly in sequence together as a group.
Starting with the Group Leader, have each Member
become the Active model, and have it perform a Move
action.
Group Followers must finish within Cohesion of the Group
Leader.
 Case-by-case — All Members may spend additional AP
as required, and may use Pushing. Manage any Passive
Player Options and Bonus Actions for one Member at a
time.
 Continue — Mark any Group Follower with a Delay
token for every AP it spends. Perform another Group
Action with the Group Leader if there is at least one
Follower and there are remaining AP.
 End of Group Action — If the Group Leader is not
available, or if there are no Followers, then the Group
Action is ended.
 If a Follower no longer has remaining AP, mark it with
Done token, and remove 2 of its Delay tokens if it has 2 or
more.
 If the Group Leader is not Done, it may continue with
Individual Actions if it has remaining AP.
Order of Process
 Handling Optional Responses — Any Opposing models
which want to perform Optional Responses may do so
between Group Members.
 Handling Morale — If any models need to perform a
Morale test as a result of any action, do this after the
End of Group Action.

Concerted Attacks
A Concerted Attack is a single Combat Test performed
against a single target in range. Concerted attacks are
regarded as Abrupt actions if interrupted by a React.
 Select Weapon — Choose a weapon the Group Leader
has and identify a target that is in range of all Group
Members. All Followers must use the same Weapon
class, such as Melee or Firearm or Bow, as the Group
Leader.
 Spend AP for each Member to perform the attack.
Perform the attacking using the Group Leader. Also see
the Adjustments and the Overwhelming Power options in
the text below.
 Situational Test Modifiers, and any trait effects are limited
to the Group Leader and the target. Any adjustment dice
or ability traits associated with a Follower's attack for the
Hit or Damage Tests are ignored.
 Any Range Combat attack must use the worst OR of any
Group Member, and may not use Thrown or Improvised
weapons. The target must be within an OR Multiple of 3.
 When performing the Hit Test or Damage Test, receive +1
Modifier die for each Group Member with the target in
range or in Melee Range.
 Resolve Attack — Perform the attack using the Group
Leader against the common target. For each Group
Member, apply their attack traits such as placing Gas or
ROF markers, requiring an attacker to discard or reload.
 Members share any cascades from a Combat Test which
passes to perform Bonus Actions, ignoring the rule for the
loss of one cascade for being Distracted.
 After resolving a Range Attack, place +1, +2, or +3
Suppression markers if there are 2, 5, or 10 Members.
These must be placed between targets, not overlap, have
LOS to a one Follower each.
 After the attack is resolved, continue at the Continue step
for Group Actions.
 Adjustments — Allow Pushing for all Attentive Members
as desired, and apply all applicable Situational Test
Modifiers such as Assist and Outnumber.
 Overwhelming Power — Each Group Member may
contribute additional bonuses for using Concentrate or
Focus, as modified below:
 Concerted Concentrate — The Group Leader may receive
Wild dice from using Concentrate by spending 1 AP as
normal, but each Follower which does so provides instead
just +1 Modifier die, but for both the Hit and Damage
Tests.
 Concerted Focus — Remove any Wait token from the
Group Leader to receive Wild dice, but each Follower
which does so provides just +1 Modifier die, but for both
the Hit and Damage Tests.

Reacts versus Groups
Group Actions may be interrupted at any time during its
execution by a React action with a Passive character per
the React rules, including for React Tests.
 The Passive player picks one Group Member within LOS
of that Passive character and compares the REF of the
targeted Member, against that Passive character.
 As an alternative, it could perform a React Test.
 If the React is qualified, or the React Test passes, resolve
the React.
 If interrupting movement, the player with the Group may
reposition all Members which haven’t yet moved no
further than the Group Leader, and up to into base-
contact with it.
 After resolving the React, continue with the Group
Action. Select a new Group Leader if none are In-Play,
and recalculate any bonuses as needed.
 Solo — A single model selected to perform React against
a Group Action receives an effective +1 REF.
Group Reacts
A Reacting model may form a Group, as a Reacting Group,
to conduct the React. It becomes the Group Leader.
Apply the rules for Choose Followers with these additions:
 All Followers must also have REF equal to or higher than
the Reacting model.
 If a Follower has a Wait token, remove it. Otherwise, it
acquires a Delay token.
 The targets of any attack by the Reacting Group must be
from among those model that are in the Active Group.
 The targets of any Range Combat attack must be within
LOS, and no Group Member may be within LOF to those
targets.
Restrictions on Actions
Group Actions must be limited to Simple Individual
Actions, and React Actions as a part of Group Reacts.
Group Actions are never allowed for Passive Player
Options.

