Lighting (´ü░)
Lighting in the Advanced Game can be nuanced. Outside it
could be ÔÇťNightÔÇŁ but within a building it may be ÔÇťTwilightÔÇŁ
because of lamps and chandeliers. It could also be the
opposite; outside it is ÔÇťDayÔÇŁ but inside a window-less
warehouse building it is ÔÇťNightÔÇŁ.
Atmospheric Lighting
This is environmental lighting for the battlefield. This
includes any ambient lighting within a building.
´éž When deciding on the Lighting for a Mission, players will
still choose between ÔÇťDay, ClearÔÇŁ and ÔÇťTwilight,
OvercastÔÇŁ as before.
´éž Other lighting values are may also be chosen, such as
ÔÇťNight, Full MoonÔÇŁ at OR 4, ÔÇťNight, Half MoonÔÇŁ at OR 2,
and others listed below.
When deciding for custom scenarios on what lighting is
available, be sure to use the table below to properly set
the mood. This Lighting then sets the Visibility OR.

OR Time of Day Atmosphere Point-light Light ´üÂ
0" Night Pitch-black - -
1" Candle ´éÄ 1
2" Flash-light ´éÄ 2
4" 6" Night Super Moon Lantern ´éÄ 6
8" Twilight ´üÁ Overcast Lamppost 8
10" 12" Night New Moon Night Half Moon Night Full Moon Headlights 10
Floodlights 12
Torch ´éÄ 4
Twilight ´üÁ Clear Day Overcast 14" Day Hazy - -
16" Day Clear - -
´üÁ Twilight occurs at Sunset and at Sunrise, can be written as either if a
Mission or Scenario is being specific.
´üÂ This is the Light X level of the Point-light source where X is also the
default Light OR when within 1 MU of the source. It is the Visibility
OR when applied as Atmospheric Lighting.
´éÄ These are Light X (Flicker), such as Light 4 (Flicker) for Torch.

Internal Lighting
All enclosed lit Buildings when the ÔÇťlights are onÔÇŁ will have
at least Atmospheric Light OR 4".
´éž Use OR 6" if Modern period and Light OR 8" if Near
Future.
´éž Doors within modern Buildings will have light switches
to toggle one or more Point-light sources.
´éž These switches can be easily destroyed for a Fiddle
action while in base-contact.
´éž Windows facing outside become Point-light sources for
internal areas with a Light X trait equal to the half the
Atmospheric Light X. Tinted windows are Atmospheric
Light X divided by 4. Drop all fractions.
Point-light Sources
Characters may be assigned Equipment which includes
Torches, Lanterns, and Lamps. There may also be
Lampposts or Chandeliers placed or identified upon the
battlefield. Or Fire. All of these are Point-light sources with
the Light X trait, with X as shown on the chart above.
´éž Elements with the Light X trait are Light sources with a
Light OR equal to X MU.
´éž Players should identify and set the Light X OR for all non-
obvious Point-light sources which may affect game-play.
´â╝ A model in base-contact with or equipped with a Light
source may never be Hidden unless out of LOS.
´â╝ If LOS to a Light source is behind Cover and beyond 1 MU,
reduce the Light X by half, but at least by 1.

Light Casting
The effective Light OR diminishes with the distance to a
Point-light source. This is known as Light Casting.
´éž Use the Effective Lighting table for the effective Light OR
by the distance of the Point-light source to a target. A
model holding or in base-contact with a Point-light
source, or within 1 MU of it and in front of the LOF to a
target, experiences at least the effective Light OR. If
Atmospheric Lighting is higher, use that.
´éž The effective Light OR is otherwise reduced. Set the LOF
from the Light source to the target, and use the Scatter
Diagram to determine the angle for the Active
character. Each arrow is 60-degrees apart.
´â╝ If the Active character is within 60-degrees of the LOF,
reduce the effective Light OR by 1.
´â╝ If instead it is within 120-degrees of the LOF, reduce the
effective Light OR by 2.
´â╝ For everything else, reduce the effective Light OR by 3.
For example; a Lamp Post has Light 8. Presuming that
Atmospheric Lighting is zero:
A target is at a distance of 2 MU creates an effective Light OR
6". A target is at a distance of 6 MU creates an effective Light
OR 3". A target is at a distance of 24 MU creates an effective
Light OR of zero and canÔÇÖt be targeted.
For example; If the Light Casting is effectively Light OR 3".
If the Active character is within 60-degrees of the LOF, this
becomes effective Light OR 2". If instead the character is
within 120-degrees of the LOF, this becomes effective Light
OR 1"
. For everything else, this becomes effective Light OR
0.5"
.

Effective Lighting Table
Distance in MU
Light X 1 2 3 4 6 8 12 16 24 32 48 64
1 0.5 - - - - - - - - - - -
2 1 0.5 - - - - - - - - - -
3 2 1 0.5 - - - - - - - - -
4 3 2 1 0.5 - - - - - - - -
6 5 4 3 2 1 0.5 - - - - - -
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0.5 - - - -
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0.5 - -
12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0.5