
Level of Absurdity
As greater discoveries into the inner working of the
universe become revealed through the understanding of
the GUTOE or “Grand Unified Theory of Everything”,
civilization progresses technologically. Very rapidly. It
consumes more matter, more energy, and expands ever
more rapidly across all of known reality. What is
considered reality itself, beginning with “The Solidness”,
starts expanding to include higher and more dimensions.
What was once considered “absurd” becomes possible.
What was once merely “possible” becomes wide-spread.
Every genre and setting have a “Level-of-Absurdity” [ LoA ]
rating which determines which traits could be possible for
assignment to characters within it.
Each LoA defaults to 1× the Kardeshev Type given for a
Technological Age.
LoA Description
0 Limited to what the real-world is known to have.
1 Kardeshev Type I. Quantum Age or later; 2100 CE.
2 Kardeshev Type II. Energy Age or later; 2250 CE.
3 Kardeshev Type III. Gravity Age or later; 3000 CE.
4 Kardeshev Type IV. Psionic Age or later; 3350 CE.
5 Kardeshev Type V. Symbolic Age or later; 5000 CE.
Permeations of Absurdity
Every setting within MEST Tactics has a basic LoA which
permeates the setting. This is usually the result of innate
progresses in technology becoming prevalent. Sometimes
it is the result of “leakages” between closely parallel
universes or “Frame Parallels”.
 Innate — Genres with pulp, fantastic, or super-science
elements will usually have an LoA matching the element
requiring the highest Kardeshev Type.
 Leakage — Genres before Kardeshev Type I that have
anachronistic elements, because of leakages, will have a
higher LoA.

The Metacycle
Time within MEST Tactics is a very complex set of
branching events partitioned into dynamically collapsing
and expanding Frame Parallels, and weaves across the
surface of a near-crystalline imperfect and convolving
toroidal Möebius Strip.
Yeah.
This is the “Metacycle”. As a result, the time after the
Symbolic Age c. 5000 CE transitions into the time before
the Stone Age c. 5000 BCE. It wasn’t always like this, but
the current convolution makes it as it is now.
Determining Leakage
When a futuristic element is introduced into a setting,
adjust the LoA by 1-2-3-4 if it is too early by 1-2-5-10 Ages.
For example; Allowing the Medieval Age Longbow weapon
within the Dark Ages is LoA 1.
For example; Allowing Mechanized Warfare (“tanks”) from
the Modern Age into the Industrial Age is LoA 2.
Alternatively, leakages from higher Kardeshev types
(which have higher LoA) can always appear in Ages with a
lower type. Merely use the higher LoA.
For example; Magic and Arcanics Kardeshev Type IV, and
therefore LoA 4. Having Magic appear in the Stone Age, or
the Medieval Age, or the Quantum Age is all the same. These
become LoA 4.
Synonyms
A synonym is when an Item which isn’t normally available
is renamed. Usually it is a later Technological Age or if it is
a different Item class (Weapon, Armor, Equipment), or of a
different Item type (e.g.; Helmet, Shield, Gear, Suit).
Increase by +1 LoA for each. Set LoA to 5 or less.
For example; assigning the capabilities of a Shotgun (Modern
Age ranged weapon) to a Dagger (Stone Age melee weapon is
LoA 3 + 2 LoA or 5, which is the maximum.
Thinning the Codon Barrier
The Codon Barrier is thinner when the setting has a higher
Level-of-Absurdity. This creates a few effects for games set
within MEST Tactics.
 Backdrop —The first is that it allows crazier technologies to
be introduced into a setting. This is mostly a narrative
concern to make for a cool story. It also allows Missions to be
completed with unusual archetypes, weapons, armor, and
equipment.
 Champions — Champions warp reality about them because
they are attempting to escape across the Codon Barrier.
When an area has a high amount of Absurdity, this makes it
easier for them to escape.
 Distortion — “Reality Distortion Field”. Champions alter
reality around them. As they progress through Campaigns,
they’ll acquire the Reputation trait which allows, possibly,
higher LoA for their Assembly at any Mission when they are
deployed.

Mechanism
As a result of the Codon Barrier, not every Frame Parallel
allows magic or super-science to exist even though a
Champion has embodied a host character.
 A character has a basic LoA matching the traits it has
been assigned which has the highest LoA.
 Most traits will have a default LoA of zero. This includes
such things which are reasonably possible for a human
being (“Human”) to have such as the Fight or Sneaky.
 LoA of 1 usually are assigned to Animals and Humanoids.
 Some traits will have a higher LoA to represent the fact
that Humans as we know them wouldn’t necessarily have
them except as elements of a pulp, cinematic, punk, or
fantasy genres. Those are in increasing LoA order.
This ensures that the trait Intense is LoA 1, while the trait
Precise is LoA 2. And it follows that the Sorcerer trait is
LoA 3.
 When a host is about to be altered by the Champion
pattern, determine if the additional levels of a trait
could possibly exist for the genre’s LoA.
 Reduce the effective LoA by 1 if the trait would be applied
to an Animal or to a non-Human.
 Reduce the effect LoA by the Reputation level of the
Champion.
 If it could not exist, reduce the trait levels to be added.
Higher Skill Levels
Characters may acquire Skills at higher than level 3. This is
possible but inefficient.
 A trait may be acquired at level 4, 5, or 6. This will cost
10×, 20×, and 50× of the Time Unit and the specified
amount of XP.
 Acquiring a trait at level 4 or more will affect a
character’s Level-of-Absurdity [ LoA ].
 At level 4, the character’s effective LoA is increased by 1
and at level 6 the LoA is increased by 2.
 If the effective LoA is higher than allowed by the genre,
disallow increasing the Skill to that level.

