Environment & Terrain
These are the standard rules for setting up a Battlefield.
A players’ first battlefield may just be a table or desk with
books and cups strewn about. Or it could have lovingly
crafted terrain for hills, trees, buildings, rivers. Regardless
there are certain guidelines that should be followed to help
keep the pace of a game quick and interesting.
The Battlefield
The size of a battlefield depends on the game size, which is
primarily depending on model count.
Game Size Standard Battlefield Larger Battlefield
Small 24" × 24" 36" × 24"
Medium 36" × 36" 48" × 36"
Large 48" × 48" 72" × 48"
 Players may always optionally use the larger battlefields.
Deploy models along the wider battlefield edges.
 If the genre is such that ranged weapons or high
movement rates are common; then use the larger
battlefields and have players deploy models at the
shorter battlefield edges.
Terrain Elements
Battlefields comprise of a good surface area known as a
“Field”. Place enough terrain to make the battlefield
interesting with enough room to maneuver.
 Provide numerous side-channels multiple paths for
movement through the battlefield.
 Limit open areas to no more 8" in length maximum
otherwise range combat will dominate the game-play.
 If the genre encourages lots of range combat or has
characters with high movement rates; try using a larger
battlefield or start deployment from the corners of the
play-area instead.
 If there are too many choke-points, game sessions will
slow down if most of the characters use range combat.
 Keep the width between terrain elements least 2" so
that models may fit between, and for tall terrain at least
4" so that players hands may fit within them.

Categories of Terrain
Terrain is categorized in one or more of; Walls, Obstacles,
Areas, or Fields.
 Fields — Relatively smooth flat terrain upon the battlefield.
 Walls — Terrain with large surfaces that rise vertically.
 Obstacles — Everything not Fields but small enough to
navigate around.
 Area — Areas of the battlefield that have an agreed general
effect, usually to act as Cover terrain, to be Rough terrain, or
even both.
Configuring Terrain
When a battlefield is configured for a Mission, players
should clearly designate what sorts of Tricky Terrain exist
for Fields, Areas, and terrain locations.
Defaults
The defaults for Fields are as follows:
 Clear  Rough  Difficult  Obscuring  Impassable — This is the default for all fields
— Rocky areas and fields, going up hill
— Rocky and going up hill
— Crops, underbrush, elephant grass
— Walls and cliff-faces
Tricky Terrain
These additional terrain types provide hooks for keywords
and game features such as Electronics, [Fizzle] and Fire.
 Flammable* — Grassy areas and fields
 Uneven* — Cluttered areas
 Mire* — Muddy areas
 Wet* — Grassy areas if recently rained
 Water* — Rivers, streams, ponds, and shores

Area Terrain ()
Area Terrain are patches of terrain placed upon the
battlefield representing either Rough, Difficult, or even
Impassable terrain. Add keywords for Obscuring and
Uneven. Additional terrain elements, such as Obstacles or
Walls, can always be placed atop Area terrain.
 Area terrain should be large enough to be significant.
 Area terrain must specify its Movement effect; Clear,
Rough, or Difficult. Use Clear by default.
 If necessary, demarcate the area of the terrain using
buildings, trees, furniture, or something else.
Common — Here are the default common Area terrain.
 Clear — Doesn’t block LOS nor penalize movement
 Difficult — May only assign as Area.
 Models entering or starting Difficult terrain must stop, or
acquire a Delay token to continue movement.
 Models moving through this area must pay 2 MU for each
1 MU moved.
 Rough — May only assign as Area. Models moving
through this area must pay 2 MU for each 1 MU moved.
 Impassable — May only assign as Area. This terrain may
not be entered, moved through, or repositioned within
by any model.
Tricky — Here are some Tricky Terrain keywords that can
be paired with other Area terrain.
 Uneven — Combine with any other Area terrain.
 Penalizes -1 Modifier die Close Combat Hit Tests.
 The Surefooted trait has no benefit for Uneven terrain.
 Mire — Wet. May only assign as Area. Terrain is Rough if
flat. It is Difficult if on a slope such as a hill or a ramp.
 The trait Surefooted does not benefit within Mire.
 Any traits with the Movement keyword are reduced a
level, and Bonus Actions involving repositioning require
+1 cascade.
 When falling into Mire terrain, reduces misses by 1.
 Obscuring X — Combine with any other Area terrain. If
LOS crosses into at least 1 MU of any Obscuring terrain,
the target receives +1 Modifier die Defender Range
Combat Hit Test.
 For every 1 MU that a model is within this terrain, the
Visibility OR to it is reduced by X MU.
 Models at higher elevation ignore the first 1" to a target
into Area Terrain per 1" higher for every 1" distant.
Water — Wet. May only assign as Area. When an Item
with the Electronic or Fizzle keyword is placed into Water
terrain becomes KO’d or Eliminated on Water terrain, that
Item is disabled for the rest of the Mission. Use the
Disabled! (known as “Jammed”) token.

