ROF Weapons ()
Rate-of-Fire weapons such as machine guns shoot many
bullets or projectiles rapidly at any target and the swath of
area near them. This allows many targets to be hit at once
using ROF markers.
ROF markers are normally on the reverse side of a
Suppression marker.
Overview
ROF weapons are very powerful, but using them requires
some care. All ROF weapons have the ROF X trait which, in
simplest terms, allows the Attacker a number of ROF
markers, X, to be placed between potential targets on the
battlefield.
ROF weapons allow the use of Suppression, and are often
limited by the addition of several Disability traits such as
[Feed], [Jam], and [Jitter].
ROF Markers
 Place up to X ROF markers between targets within LOS
along the LOF, but each marker must not be more than
Cohesion apart from the last one placed.
 A player may always choose not to use all or any of the
allowed ROF markers.
 Markers must be within LOS, and is blocked by models.
 Each additional time that the Attacker uses ROF this
Initiative, reduce X by 1.
 ROF markers may not be placed within range of any
Friendly models, within range of the Attacker, nor within
range of a target that is in base-contact with a Friendly
model.
 The range of effect for a ROF marker is 1" from its center.
 ROF markers should be placed on the battlefield and atop
Obstacles, but not upon the bases of any models.
However, very large models such as Vehicles or models of
SIZ 6 or greater, have ample room to place these markers.
 Conceivably, if it were physically possible to keep them in
place, ROF markers could be placed attached to Walls to
represent attacks specifically to that area.
 If numerous ROF markers need to be placed in a single
location, consider using a small six-sided die to identify
how many there are to conserve markers.
 If there are ROF markers within range to a target from a
prior Action, flip those to the Suppression marker side if
using the optional Suppression rules, or remove them
first.

Resolving Attacks
 Identify one target as the Primary target using a
reminder pawn. This defaults to the closest target. Any
cascades for Bonus Actions come from Tests against the
Primary target.
 For every model, Friendly or Opposing, within LOS to the
Attacker and within range of one or more ROF markers,
resolve the Attacker Range Combat starting with the
Primary target.
 For each target, add a Wild die as an “ROF die” for every
marker in range for the Hit Test.
 All bonuses from Concentrate are against just the
Primary target. Roll its bonus Wild die separate from the
ROF dice.
 Do not perform any Bonus Actions or Morale Tests until
all attacks have been resolved.
 Remove the ROF markers afterwards, unless also using
the optional Suppression rules (below).
Situational Test Modifiers
These are some common penalties when using ROF
weapons.
 Obscured — Attacker Hit or Detect Tests for 1, 2, 5, or
10 other models within LOF to the target, and for non-
Opposing models beyond but within 1 MU of LOF. Each
is -1 Modifier die.
 Snap-shot — When using ROF during a React, Counter-
fire, or with Agility, or after performing the Move action;
reduce ROF available by 1.
Disability Traits
The most common Disability traits associated with ROF
weapons are [Feed], [Jam], and [Jitter]. To keep things
simple, both [Feed] and [Jam] should be ignored when first
learning these rules. Doing so will increase the cost of a
weapon by +5 BP if one is ignored and by +10 BP if both
are ignored.