Technological Ages
MEST Tactics identify “ages” as shown in the list below,
such as “Stone Age” or “Atomic Age” to limit weapons,
armor, equipment, and archetypes available for play.
Periods & Ages
The Ovodium Cosmogos is a collection of parallel
universes; a multiverse. Elements from one Frame Parallel
may have incursions that affect adjacent universes.
Many anachronistic (“out-of-time”) elements exist which
come from future Ages. These are things such as the
presence of energy weapons during the Iron Age perhaps
as a per se “magic staff of power”, or the use powered
battle armor during the Machine Age. Players are free to
invent their own cross-over elements as they desire in
order to have the gaming experience that they want.
The Historical Periods
At the time of this writing, it is 2020 CE and we as a
civilization are near the beginning of the Robotics Age just
a few decades into the Information Age. Each of the
Historical Periods includes many sub-divisions into Ages
that include technological inventions or evolutions that
create global turmoil.
Some interesting features of the various Periods are;
 Ancient — Rudimentary Light or Medium armor, usually
just Mail. Spear, Sword, Club, Sling, and Bow weapons.
 Archaic — Features Heavy and Field armors. Introduces
the very first Single action Pistols, Muskets, and Rifles all
using Blackpowder. Early bombs.
 Expansionist — Telescopes, Sailing ships, standardized
weapons, armor, and equipment. Telegraph, telephone,
and modern smokeless Gun-powder weapons.
 Modern — Machine and submachine-gun weapons with
ROF. Hand grenades, Bulletproof or Bombproof armors.
Radio Comm-links. Very few if any Melee weapons.
 Near Future — Robots, androids (“automatons”), Beam
Weapons, Force fields and shields. Vibro swords and
power-gloves are introduced.
 Far Future — Virtual bodies, Just-in-time weapons and
armor, supercomputer brains, and gene-crafted beasts.
Psionic weapons and rogue killer robots roam the
battlefields. Human-kind experiences genetic drift.
 Fantastic — The entry point into high-fantasy and hellish
chaos clouds. The ever presence of demons, eldritch
begins, dark wizards and literal reality-distortion fields.

Kardeshev Scale
A Technological Singularity occurs during the late Fusion
Age (circa 2050 CE) which helps advance civilization on
Earth into the start of a Type I Kardeshev Scale once it is
properly controlled. Uncontrolled it destroys civilization.
The Kardeshev Scale is used as a rough estimate of much
energy a civilization generates in total with implications of
how it came to be there and what it means in terms of
what is possible.
The numbers , ,, and  indicate the Kardashev
Civilization Types; I, II, III, or IV. Up to this point, Earth is a
“Type Zero” civilization which can be considered a “Third
World backwater” planet for the rest of the universe. As
with Ages, there are aspects of each type which may
appear sporadically in earlier types.
 Type I —Enough of physics and science has been
discovered and engineered to allow interplanetary
colonization. This is the rise of corporation-driven
warfare of all forms across the planets within the Solar
system. At this point, belligerent life elsewhere in the
universe takes greater interest in earthly affairs.
 Type II — Earth is capable of interstellar colonization
and will meet alien life, some of which are classified as
“sophonts” meaning intelligent. Competition for newly
discovered resources provide a basis for interstellar
warfare and sophont exploitation using MEMSics.
 Type III — By this stage, human civilization has met and
caused conflicts against other intra-galactic civilizations,
and has begun inter-dimensional exploration. Through
technological enhancement of the microtubules within
each brain cell, psionics becomes wide-spread and no
longer an isolated biological phenomenon.
 Type IV — At Type IV, local reality manipulation
becomes common place. Dreams and wishes create
memetic (“mind things”) effects that affect the world
around each charismatic and willful practitioner. It is the
creation of “psychic spheres” where the collective
unconscious of a culture or religion persists as a tangible
“Fifth Dimension”, that can be visited and also have its
visitors come to us.
 Type V —This is the official start of “scientific magic”
known as “Arcanics” layered upon the psychic spheres
which now can have instant cross-universe effects.
Anachronisms
At the root of every setting within each genre of MEST
Tactics is some form of anachronism where technology
from later Technological Ages is present earlier than usual.
Something from the future, even from the very next
“Age”, be it a radio or a main battle tank, will always
require greater manufacturing infrastructure, more inter-
disciplinary science and engineering effort, and an
immense logistical support network not normally
available. It would be absurd, but entirely possible within
the in-game universe that is within the MEST.

Time Lines
Technological Periods and Ages
Age Circa Notes
Stone 5000 BCE Alcohol. Hide Armor. Flint Weapons.
Slings. Bows. Shields. Horse riders.
Bronze 2250 BCE Math. Writing. Bronze Weapons.
Swords. Metal Armor. Chariots.
Ancient
Oared Ships.
Iron 500 BCE Cartography. Scrolls. Iron weapons.
Crossbow. Aqueducts. Bridges and
Dams. Streets. Gears. Locks.
Dark 500 CE Roads. Medicine. Sanitation. Stirrup.
Chemical Warfare. Horse-collar. Lenses.
Medieval 1000 CE Gun-powder. Explosives. Compass.
Movable Type. Scientific Method.
Archaic
Renaissance 1300 CE Steel Weapons. Chemistry. Algebra.
Artillery. Longbow.
Colonial 1500 CE Plate Armor. Armored Horse Cavalry.
Blackpowder Weapons.
Sail 1650 CE Full Sail Ships. Encryption. Calculus.
Telescope. Difference Engine.
Expansionist
Clockworks. Germ Theory.
Industrial 1750 CE Steam Power. Railroads. Telegraph.
Machined parts. Hot Air Balloons.
Leyden Capacitors. Hydrogen Gas.
Machine 1850 CE Electric Power. Batteries. Telephone.
Antiseptics. Anesthetics. Vaccinations.
Ironclads. Helium and Dirigibles. Plastics
Modern 1900 CE Petroleum. Mechanized Warfare.
Bio-fuels. Vacuum Tube. Radio. Aircraft.
Modern
Atomic 1950 CE Nuclear power. Jet Engines. Rockets.
Radar. Printed-circuits. Brain Surgery.
Information 2000 CE Computers. Genetic Manipulation.
Holograms. Rail Weapons. 3D Printing.
Miniaturization. Designer Drugs.
Robotics 2025 CE Robotics. Cybernetics. Automatons.
Near Future
Fuel Cells. Artificial Life. Early Nanotech.
Superconductors. Cloning. Jet-packs.
Fusion 2050 CE Fusion Power. Beam Weapons.
Powered Armor. Mega-structures.
Cryonics. Space Colonies. Energy.
Quantum 2100 CE Quantum Computing and Materials.
Vibro Weapons. Virtual Cultures.
Psychotronics.
Far Future
Energy 2250 CE Anti-matter Power. Grey Goo.
Biomimicry. Force fields. Synthetic
Bodies. Light-drives. MEMSics.
Gravity 3000 CE Gravity Control. Terraforming.
Biomemesis. Warp Drives. Dimensional
Portals. Star Gates. Etherics.
Fantastic
Psionic 3350 CE Psionic Dimensions. Eldritch Beings.
Pocket Universes. Demons. Psionics.
Symbolic 5000 CE Manipulation of Reality. Teleporters.
Time-travel. Magic. Arcanics.