Gas, Fume, and Puffs ()
Gas is a dynamic terrain feature. Gas is generated by a
Fume which creates one or more Gas markers each Turn.
Placement
These Gas markers represent types of chemicals or
particulates such as Acid, Steam, Smoke, Poison, Riot,
Nerve, Mustard, or even Knockout gas.
 Gas markers are size 1, 2, 3, and 4 which are 0.75 MU, 1
MU, 2 MU, or 3 MU in diameter. They are either Fume
or Puff; both are considered “Gas markers”.
 Fume markers are twice as tall as they are wide and
appear as twisted plumes. Via the Fume X trait, place a
Fume marker of size X. Place a "Fume" die near it
indicating pips value X + 1.
 Puffs are twice as wide as a Fume marker and can have
non-circular shapes. Place these when not placing Fume
markers.
 Color-coding — Gas markers do not need to be
differentiated by color-coding as there will usually be
just one type used during any given Mission. However, it
could be thematic to have toxic clouds be yellow or
green.
Gas Effects
Gas has effects which will vary by its type. Gas is normally
written as Gas:Type which is always a named trait. For
example; Gas:Steam or Gas:Poison.
 Gas markers have a Gas range of 2 MU. Models within
that range will be affected by the effects of the Gas
marker by its type.
 When a model ends movement or repositions into a Gas
marker slide it just enough to the side and behind the
model. Which side is the choice of the owner of the
model.
 If there is no room to reposition a Gas marker push any
other Gas markers outward 2 MU, if possible, to make
room.
 If a Gas marker is too big for where it needs to be placed
or repositioned, divide it into two equal sized smaller
markers.

Spreading Gas Markers
For any Fume markers with a Fume die associated with it,
it is in Spreading status. At the start of every Turn, the
player which placed the Fume, adjusts the Puff markers
available.
For each Fume marker:
 Spread — For every Puff marker, starting the outermost,
place a larger Puff marker 2 MU outward from it if there
isn’t already one. If the size is already the maximum, or
if there is no room to place it, place two equally spaced
smaller ones within 2 MU instead.
 Grow — If there is room near the Fume marker, place
three Puff markers of its Fume size 2 MU from it,
attempting to form a ring. Otherwise seek to place them
further outward by another 2 MU.
 Reduce — Reduce the Fume die by one. Remove the die
if the pips value is reduced to zero.
 Make it make sense - Gas rolls around terrain not
through.
 Puff markers will not cross into terrain taller than it, and
so reposition as necessary.
 Break into two smaller Puff markers to reposition within
constrained areas about 2 MU apart.
Dissipating Gas Markers
At the start of every Turn, if there is no Fume die
associated with a Fume marker, then it is in Dissipating
status:
 Replace — If a Fume maker no longer has any Puff
markers associated with it, replace it with a Puff marker
of the same size.
 Reduce — Otherwise, for each Fume marker, starting
with the inner ring of Puff markers, reduce the size of
each Puff marker by one unless it is within 3 MU of a
Fume marker of the same Gas:Type.
 Linger — If a Puff marker is to be reduced from size 1
and removed, instead roll two Modifier dice. If at either
die is a success, do not remove the Puff marker.

