Performing Indirect Range Combat ()
Indirect Range Attacks are Range Attack actions against a
target that is a battlefield location which is within LOF.
This may or may not be within LOS. The weapon is usually
a Grenade (has the Grenade trait), or an Item with the AoE
keyword.
Overview
Unless using a Natural weapon, the Active character
acquires a Delay token if this is not its first attack this
Initiative.
 Announce a Ranged weapon to be used; the weapon
must have an OR value. It must be a Thrown weapon,
have the Throwable trait, or have the [Arc] trait.
 Thrown weapons have an OR written as STR or STR + X"
to indicate that is the equal to the Attacker’s STR.
 If OR is zero it becomes 0.5 MU. If negative, disallow the
Attack.
 If the weapon has the [Reveal] trait, remove Attacker's
Hidden status if in LOS. This is all Firearms weapons.
 Announce a battlefield location within LOF to become
the target of the Range Combat Attack.
 Place a small reminder pawn or token at the desired
target location for ease of reference. Remove this after
resolving the attack.
 There must exist a midpoint above the battlefield
between the target location and Attacker which is no
higher than the distance between the Attacker and the
target, with LOS to both.
Resolving Indirect Range Hit Test
The goal is to determine if the intended target location is
where the weapon lands, or if it will become repositioned
by Scatter.
 Resolve the Indirect Attack Hit Test as an Unopposed
RCA Test ˗1 Base die per OR Multiple [ ORM ]. If fail,
note any misses.
 Apply any Situational Test Modifiers as necessary such
as “Hindrance”, “Distance”, “Point-blank”, and “Direct
Cover” or “Intervening Cover”.
 Add weapon's Accuracy bonus. This appears as “Acc” on
the weapon’s stat line on the Weapons list.

Scatter
Scatter causes the target location for an Indirect Range
Attack, via the reminder pawn or token, to reposition a
distance and a direction. The direction is determined by
using a Scatter diagram.
 Reposition — When Scatter occurs; the targeted
location repositions a distance equal to misses × 1", but
at least 1 MU.
 Determine the Scatter direction using a Biased
Scatter diagram, along the LOF from the Attacker to
the target location.
 If the target location was into a Wall, it repositions
the remainder distance on the reflected angle of the
incident angle.
 If the attack again repositions into a barrier such as a
Wall, Obstacle, Building or Vehicle, it stops at the
point of contact.
 Roll-down — Indirect Range Attacks with at least one
miss will reposition additional distance according to
gravity, displacing the location of the attack down slopes
and off precipices.
 The distance repositioned off a cliff or precipice is 0.5 MU
per 1 MU dropped, plus 1 MU per miss.
 Check slopes. Note the rise over run as the slope, such as
1 MU rise per 2 MU run is 0.5. This is the default.
Whenever repositioned atop yet another slope, increase
the MU to be repositioned. Repeat.
 Stop the reposition if it hits a Wall or Obstacle.
Scrambling ()
Scrambling is a form of React action for when a target
location is attacked. It is allowed whenever performing an
Indirect Range Attack, or if the [Scatter] trait is involved.
See more information within the Advanced Game Rules
section under Passive Player options.
Apply Weapon Traits
Apply the weapon traits, starting with those with the AoE
keyword.
 If the weapon doesn’t have the Frag trait, have any
targets in base-contact perform an Unopposed Damage
Test against the weapon’s Dmg ratings.
 Otherwise, apply the weapon’s Dmg rating according to
the Frag trait, and only against those targets that failed
its Hit Test.


Scatter Diagrams
Scatter diagrams are used to pick a random directly for
moving or placing game-play elements. There are two
kinds of Scatter diagrams:
 Unbiased — The Unbiased Scatter diagram will pick a
random direction equally.
 This should form a vague hexagon shape.
 Roll a six-sided die and count clock-wise with the ‘1’ point
towards the other player and the ‘4’ pointing away.
 Biased — The Biased Scatter diagram is like the
Unbiased Scatter diagram but the ‘1’ points to a
“desired” direction picked by the Active player. Re-roll
the first ‘3’, ‘4’, or ‘5, and then re-roll the next ‘4’.

Blind Attacks
Indirect Range Attacks can target battlefield locations that
an attacking model does not currently have LOS.
 Target locations which are in LOF but not in LOS to the
Attacker may be attacked only if at least one of these
following conditions apply and if so, the attack is
“Blind”:
 Spotter — if a Free Attentive Ordered Friendly model
within Cohesion has LOS to the target (as a “Spotter”)
 Known — if the target was in LOS at the start of
Attacker's Initiative,
 If the attack involves the [Scatter] trait and is also
“Blind”, use the Unbiased Scatter diagram with an extra
Wild die for distance but do not re-roll the direction.
 Blind — Penalize the Active character -1 Wild die for the
Attacker Range Combat Hit Test if this is a Blind Indirect
attack. See Performing Indirect Range Combat for more
information.

