Objective Markers
Each Mission will describe if there will be Objective
Markers [ OMs ] present, their type and number, and how
to place them upon the battlefield.
Typically place OMs near Obstacle terrain to indicate
something important is present.
 OM Types — There are several different types of OMs,
and how they are acquired during play and how they
enable scoring varies. An OM could be one or more of:
 Switches — A Switch OM. These change the state of some
game element. These do not move, and may not be
acquired or collected. Switches have and “On” and “Off”
state.
 Lock — A Switch OM. Similar to Switches, but its state
may only be toggled if the paired Idea or Physical OMs
are In Hand.
 Key — A Key OM. These either an Idea or Physical OM
paired with a specifically named Lock OM.
 Idea — An Idea OM. These represents abstract bits of
information either something that is seen, heard, or
learned at the location of the OM. No limit to how many
can be In Hand.
 Tiny — A Physical OM. This is the default OM type. It is a
tiny physical Item which can be pocketed. Tiny OMs
always require at least 2 AP to acquire.
 Small — A Physical OM. These are small physical Items
which can be held in hand. These are assigned the [1H]
and [Stub] traits, and are about the size of a loaf of bread.
 Large — A Physical OM. These are large physical Items
which are assigned the [1H] trait. Having 2 gives the set
the [Laden] trait. About the size of a small bag of flour.
 Bulky — A Physical OM. These are bulky physical Items
which are assigned [2H] and [Laden 2] traits. About 10-kg
in mass or about the size of a large bag of dog food.

Actions
OMs may be acquired transferred, and shared.
 Acquire — While Free, if there are no other Attentive
Opposing models which are also in base-contact with
the OM; acquire by spending 1 AP for a Fiddle action.
 Unless the OM represents a Switch OM, keep it with the
model when acquired. Note or identify that it is acquired
and are “In Hand”.
 Animals may never acquire Idea OMs, but may alter
Switch OMs.
 Per the standard rules, characters usually have 2 Hands to
carry Items, and can use effectively an additional Hand,
but it is -1 Base die for all Combat Tests and Fiddle Test.
 Transfer — While in base-contact, any Physical OMs can
be transferred as a 1 AP Fiddle action to the Active
character between Friendly characters if at least one is
Attentive Ordered.
 The Fiddle action will require 2 AP if it involves Stunned or
Disordered Distracted characters. This includes Opposing
characters.
 Physical OMs transferred from an Opposing model are
always regarded as Neutral OMs.
 Shared — Idea OMs require 1 AP, plus one per total
Hindrance between two Free Friendly Attentive
characters within Cohesion. Both will have a copy, but
only one copy will ever benefit a player for scoring.
Concerns
 Scoring — Each OM acquired awards +1 RP. Switch OMs
are acquired when first toggled, and Physical OMs are
not scored if character with it becomes Eliminated.
 Dropping — Characters which are KO’d or Eliminated
drop all their Physical OMs at their location. They are
dropped as Neutral OMs valuable to all Sides.
 Improvised Weapons — All Physical OMs may be used
as an Improvised weapon. However, they immediately
break and become worthless when performing a
Damage test using them. When broken, they are worth
zero RP.
 Destroying — All Switch OMs may never be attacked or
destroyed unless specified by a Mission. Physical OMs
may be attacked using a Fiddle action for 1 AP to destroy
them. Idea OMs are usually destroyed when a character
which acquired it has been Eliminated.